Q1. What is Jenkins?

Jenkins is an open source automation server.
Jenkins is an open source continuous integration/continuous delivery and deployment (CI/CD) 
automation software DevOps tool written in the Java programming language. 
It is used to implement CI/CD workflows, called pipelines.

Q2. What is Jenkins used for?

Jenkins is used to automate the parts of software development related to building, testing and deploying, continuous integration and 
continuous delivery.

Q3. Which architecture is recommended for a scalable Jenkins environment?

Distributed builds architecture is prescribed for a scalable Jenkins environment 
because the agents perform the main work and the master maintains the coordination.

Q4. How to add a user in Jenkins?

1. Log in to Jenkins using the existing administrative user account credentials.
2. Navigate to the “Manage Jenkins -> Manage Users” page.
3. Select the “Create User” option.
4. Enter a username, password, name and email address to create a new user. ...
5. Save the new account.

Q5. What is Jenkins Pipeline?

Jenkins Pipeline is plugins which supports implementing and 
integrating continuous delivery pipelines into Jenkins.

Q6. What is Jenkinsfile?

Jenkinsfile is a text file that contains the definition of a Jenkins Pipeline and is checked into source control.

Q7. What is continuous integration in Jenkins?

Continuous Integration is a process of integrating code changes from multiple developers in a single project many times.

Q8. How to change port for Jenkins?

1. Go to /etc/default folder --> Open the file "Jenkins".
2. Modify the line HTTP_PORT=(present port number) as HTTP_PORT=(desired port number).
3. Start Jenkins as root by using the command: sudo /etc/init. d/jenkins start.
4. Open a browser and browse as localhost:(desired port number).


Q9. What are the software prerequisites that must be met before Jenkins is installed?

Jenkins requires an installation of the Java Development Kit (JDK). 
JAVA_HOME should also be configured prior to installation.

Q10. How to configure and use third-party tools in Jenkins?

1. Inside Jenkins go to ‘Manage Jenkins’

2. then go to ‘Manage Plugins’

3. There you will find a tab called ‘Advanced’ , there you just have to type the third party tool name .

4. Here you go, if the plugin is there in available option.You can just install the plugin from there.

5. Then configure the third party tool inside the particular job
